Hello builders. Welcome to our EF Frontier DAP guide. This is one of a series of videos we're putting together to show you builders how to build a DAP. This video will take you through the builder scaffold repo, how to install evault on your Chrome browser, use our React SDK, and finally, how to call a move contract function, sign for it, and see the function calls on chain. For the purposes of this video, everything that we will be using will be on testnet. So, let's get started. First, we're going to navigate over to the builder docs, which can be found at docs.eafrontier.com. The builder docs are a helpful resource that we're putting together to make building on suite as easy as possible. From the builder docs, you're going to navigate down the sidebar to look for Eve Vault. EV Vault is an inventory and wallet management tool for EFontier. For our purposes, we'll be navigating over here to the browser extension. Click on this link and it will take you to where you can download the latest version of EV. Now that you're at the GitHub page, scroll down until you see the downloadable assets. This version is e vault version 0.03 for Utopia. Click to download the zip file. Once you have downloaded it, unzip it as well so that it's usable for the next step. Under Chrome settings, go to extensions, then manage extensions. In the top right hand corner, click on developer mode and enable the toggle. Then go to load unpacked. At this point, you should have already unzipped the file that was downloaded. If you haven't, please do so now. Click open from within the unzipped file. And this will load the EV vault browser extension into your Chrome browser instance. If you have been with us since the days of EVM, you might remember that EV vault used to require a 12word pneummonic on this is no longer the case. To access EVOL, first create a six-digit PIN. Now, click on the login button. This will trigger a popup to open. Log in with the same email and password that you use for the Utopia server. You should now see that you are logged into EV. You should also be able to see your SWE address. Now let's move over to the next part of our setup. Get clone the builder scaffold repo. In the DAPs folder, also install all of the packages using PNPM. Open the builder scaffold repo in your IDE of choice. I'm using cursor, but you can use any one you want. Now navigate into the DAPs folder and you'll see that under dependencies effier dapkit has already been installed. Let's take a moment now to look at efrontierkit and what it entails. Navigate to the doc site which is located at sui-docs.efrontier.com. This will give you full documentation for everything in this React SDK. Now let's go back to the DAPS repo in main.tsx. You can see that the effrontier provider is imported. This will give you access to different hooks that are used throughout the effrontier world. Now let's look at app.tsx. And we can also at this point run our app. Navigating to the locally run instance of the app. We can see that there is a connect wallet button. Let's click on it. This will prompt the eVault popup to come up which will ask you to input the pin that you had set earlier. On inputting your PIN, you will now see that the app is connected to EV displaying the same wallet address in the DAP as you have in EV vault. Now let's talk about how to get basic information about a smart assembly. DAPKit makes it easy for you to find out assembly information through two ways. First, let's go back into the repo and copy our env sample. Rename this copy to env and note the different variables that are available to you in this setup. The first is Eve world package ID. If you have previously deployed a world then change this variable to the package ID of the one that you have deployed. The second to note is vitu graphql endpoint. As mentioned earlier we are doing everything against testn net. So this will be the value that you are querying against. This provides information about indexed values on sui. The third variable which is optional is vit object ID. The object ID that you will be putting in here is the sui object ID of the smart assembly that you have already previously created. comparing the end file and your app running side by side. Now you can see that the vit object ID that was input into the end file shows up as an assembly on the left hand side. Opening up the inspect tab and then navigating to network. We can then also further see that all the information that is being requested by the app is being pulled from GraphQL from the endpoint that we had previously defined in the end file. Now let's go into assembly info which shows us where this is being rendered. We can see that there is a hook use smart object from which we are destructuring properties such as assembly, character, loading and error. For our purposes, the only one that we will be concerned about is assembly. Under the hood, DATKit takes the sui object ID which you have defined in the end variable and then makes a query against the GraphQL endpoint for test net. This then is parsed into a structured format so that it is easier to handle. Now it might be the case that it is easier simply to keep using this three object ID that is being passed in EN. However, if you would like to allow your DAP to be more reactive, you can also pass query parameters which will derive the three object ID for you with DABKIT. Here you can see that I have cleared out the object ID in EN which has led the app to now render nothing and no assembly is being selected. However, I can also add in the URL query parameters tenant and item ID. These two are used to derive the same SU object ID as I had passed previously in EN. Now let's look at how to interact with your assembly on chain. Within the builder scaffold repo, there are lots of resources that you can use to help you with this. Navigate down to TS scripts. And as we are interacting here with a smartgate, let's also open up the smartgate folder. Go into authorizegate.ts where you can then see the creation of the authorized gate transaction call. We will be using this file as an example on which to base our local DAP version of authorizegate so that we can make the same call but from within the app. Let's go back up into the DAPs folder under source. Create a new subfolder called functions and under that a new file called authorizegate.ts. You might notice that there are some variables that are used in the authorized gate TS scripts that we will not need in the DAPs folder. This is because we have already pulled for these values using GraphQL. This includes things like the gate ID, the gates owner's character ID and owner cap ID. Now let's build out the function taking authorized gate from the TS scripts folder as a template. We will be passing in character ID, gate ID, and gate owner cap ID. But we can also see that there are some variables that need to be imported such as modules. So let's go ahead and do that now. Let's also copy the rest of this transaction build. borrowing the owner cap, authorizing the extension, and then returning the owner cap. You can see that some names have changed as a result of this copy and paste. So, let's fix that. The package ID is the same as what was defined in N previously. You can also see that we need an off type. So, let's copy and paste that from our TS scripts. And also remember to fix any imports. You can see that we are still requiring a builder package ID here. If you have this from previous steps, go ahead and input this now. But I'll be coming back to this later. Now that we have the transaction built out, let's return it. And then let's also export it. Now we have the entire transaction built out for us. Let's now go over to assemblyinfo.tsx. Under assembly info, let's now create a button. Within the button, we'll be wanting to build out the transaction and then also call sign and execute within the button element. We will now create the authorize gate transaction. The authorized gate function takes in three parameters. Their assembly ID, character ID, and owner cap ID. Let's make sure that character is defined and we'll also go over how to get the owner cap ID. In order to get the owner cat ID, we will be working with the raw move object data. This is not part of the parsed assembly, but is nonetheless available as a raw nested object. There is a type error, but it's safe to ignore it for now. Now, we're going to go back to building out the transaction and let's fill in everything that we need to get the transaction to be sent and executed. Now, we will need to start using DAPKit. Import the use DAPKit hook from Miston DAPKit React. This is distinct from effrontiers DAPKit. We can now use the DAPKit object to call different functions. Now we'll be able to call the sign and execute transaction function from DAPKit. Here it's important to note that because we're using ZK login we will need to define the sender of the transaction. You can get that sender by using current account. You can get the current account by using the use current account hook. This is also imported from mist kit react. Now let's compare the two functions on the left and on the Right. On the left, we see all the different move calls that go into the steps of building out that transaction. And on the right, we can see how the builtout transaction is then returned to us by using the authorize gate function which we have copied. On the left, we also see that sign and execute transaction is called by using the SV client. on the right. We're achieving the same effect by using DAT kit. Now let's make sure that we have everything we need. We're passing into the authorized gate function character assembly and owner cap ID. This corresponds also to the parameters that the function takes of character assembly and owner cap ID. We're still missing the builder package ID. So let's go ahead and input that. Now, now we should have everything that we need to call this function successfully. We're also going to console log the result just so that we have visibility into what's going on in the return of this function. Now I had to create a new smartgate just because I got a little bit lost. Uh but you can use the same smart gate that you already have. You are still connected of course to the same wallet address as was passed in from Eve vault. Now let's go and click on the authorize gate button which we have previously defined. On clicking the button we can see that evol prompts the sign and execute transaction popup. This will show you information about the transaction that you are sending. So you can review that if you would like. I'm just going to go ahead and click approve. Now we can see the logged results of the sign and execute transaction including the transaction digest which shows the hash of your transaction on chain. Just to double check, we're going to take that transaction digest and put it into scan so that we can see the successful transaction. Swiss scan is telling us that the transaction was successful, which means that you have now successfully called a function from your DAP and authorized your gate.