Hi everyone, welcome back. This is hackathon video guide part two. Part one was about setting up your local environment. And even if you have not watched it, no worries. This video will catch you up on that. And today we'll see how to write a custom contract and configure this to your smart assembly in eontier world to change its behavior. And this video is mostly for local development. uh but in the upcoming videos we'll focus on the integration with the game etc. Also this is more for experienced devs who has been building with us for quite some time because it assumes you have knowledge about smart assemblies and sui and move. If not, I would highly recommend you to check out the documentation first to familiarize yourself with the suite and more fundamentals and basics of smart contracts and how the e-rontier world is built and some concepts about network nodes, smart character and storage unit etc. and come back to watch this video. So jumping back into what we'll see today. So first we'll set up the local environment. and we'll deploy the effrontier world in local to simulate the game actions and then we'll understand how to build a custom contract with an example. We'll also deploy the custom contract to the local node and we'll test end to end flow to see if it works. So let's get started. So let's clone the builder scaffold repository. So the builder's careful repository is where you'll find all the tools, templates, and examples to build for your hackathon. So you can clone the repository. I'm going to open in cursor ID, but you can use any ID you like. So here you can basically see all the instructions and documentation to get started. But in this video I'll focus on doing everything in docker and local where all the tools required is installed against a local node. So if you prefer to run on your host machine without the docker, you can follow this guide. It's the same steps but without docker and also I'm going to show you how it works in local net but again if you prefer to test in testn net then you can do the same steps against testn net instead of local net. I prefer to do in local to save the overhead of gas. So let's get started. I'm going to follow the end to end builderflow docker.md file so that it's easy for you to also follow when you start building. So here the prerequest is docker and uh I'm going to start the container by running this command which basically creates three funded accounts like for example admin player A and player B and this key persists across the container starts. So you can basically use this addresses even in test net. So here you can see docker nswu. Here you can see all the keys that was created. It also starts the local node. It has all the tools. So just to check I'm going to check the balance. It has balance. So we good. Also you can do all the sweet client commands in this. I'm going to check what is the active environment which is local net. We are good. So next let's go ahead and uh deploy the world. Here it says the folder structure and here it's basically if you want to test this in testn net. For now, I'm going to skip this. Now, let's deploy the world and create some test resources. So, why do we need this step? It's because in real game, you would create a character and build a network node and deploy some assemblies and online them and then you start building the custom contract. Uh, but this step simulates all the game actions. So you have everything in local. So now let's go ahead and deploy the uh E frontier world. I'm going to clone the world context repository and use this script to fill the end files required for the deployment. This basically uses the keys that were created locally for us which is here in nswu. But if you want to bring your own keys, you can also use them. And then I'm going to install the dependencies. Now I'm going to deploy the world in local. So here if you want to do it in test net you can bring your own keys or use the same keys and get the gas and instead of doing local net you can do uh deploy test net. So this basically publishes all the contracts in the effort world and I'm going to configure. So this basically uh sets up the admin addresses and it sets up the fuel efficiencies and the energy requirements required. So here you can see all the logs and also I'm doing this step manually like cloning the world contracts and creating the resources so you know what happens under the hood. So if something goes wrong, you can also see it um in the deployment logs and you can see what's in the world contracts and you can change things if required. But uh we planning to automate this. So in the future I will just create some scripts to do this. But now it's good so that you understand what's happening. And now I'm going to uh create some test resources which basically uh simulates everything that happens in the game which is like create character. So here you can see it's creating a character and then it creates a network node and it deposits some fuel into it and it uh brings it online. Uh you can see this happening and it creates some storage units and it deposits some items into it and also it creates two gates for you to test the example. It also brings it online. So instead of this you could also use the world contracts uh public image. So for that you can see this ripple and the packages there's a docker image being published in every release. So you can also use this image instead of cloning and then you can use it to deploy, you can configure and you can also test resources. But it's um also nice to do this way so that you can create more resources if you want. Since you have the clone repository in your local you can basically uh change. So all these test resources are being created using this uh test resources.json file. Here you define all the ids. This is basically the item ID from the game. And this helps you create some objects. And if you want some um more items to be deposited, you can basically change the item ID here. And you can just run um PNPM create assembly or create SSU or like uh deposit more items. So this comes in handy. Let's continue with the next steps. Now let's copy the world artifacts into the builder scaffold. This is basically the deployment files and the um resource JSON which has all the ids and this is the published toml file. So we have copied everything. So you should be able to see it here. And now we have everything we need for building the custom contract. So let's build a very simple custom contract um for your smart gate in the game. So what is a smart gate? A smart gate is a structure that you can build in space to jump between two systems. So first let's understand the default behavior of a smart gate in game. Then we can write a custom logic to change its behavior. So I'm going to go to the world contracts repository to see the default behavior and um go to the assemblies gate. Yeah. So here by default um if you build a gate in the game, it does not have any uh rules. So anyone can jump through your gate. But once you build a custom contract to change this default behavior, then the default jump gets blocked. The game will call the jump with permit function which requires a valid jump permit and this will be issued by a custom contract. So that's how you take control. So you can define any rules you want in your custom contract to issue the jump permit so that you block the default jump by anyone. And this uh jump permit it's like a object that is defined here and once the players has used it to jump it will invalidate um to invalidate this permit. So you can check here here it's like invalidating it. So now let's customize the default behavior of the gate using a custom contract. Let's go back and in the move contracts under smart gate there are some examples on how you can customize. So let's take this. So here is a custom contract where we define a strap to configure like which tribe members can uh get a jump permit so that they can access your gate to jump. So now you can in this contract you can issue a jump permit for your tribe members to jump. So only the members who have um who is part of the tribe can get uh the jump permit. So how do you do that? So here you can define a function to issue the jump permit. Basically you can build a DAP so that uh anyone can call the DAP and get a jump permit. But here you can um add a check like for example if the character is from a certain tribe and uh the tribe you can configure which tribe you allow uh you allow for. So this is how they get a valid jump. Now let's see how you can configure this custom logic to your smart assembly in uh which is defined in eontier world. So um the logic to do that is you define a witness strct like this strct which has only drop capability. And now um in the so you can use this uh type name to register or configure in a smart assembly in the e frontier world. So so that it adds this type name to its allow list. Uh so you can uh use this uh witness type to call the functions from the world. So since you have registered this type for your smart assembly only the module that is defining this type is authorized to call the functions in the efront world. And um going back to the whole world contract here you can see it's called authorization. Yeah. So here you can see it's owner kept. So only you as a owner of the smart gate can uh register or authorize the witness type name. So once you do this then your custom contract like for example here can call the uh world contract functions through this type witness and only this module which defines this can call uh no other package or module can call it. That's how we access control. Um that's uh pretty much it. How you can like define your custom contract and how you can connect it to the world like link your specific smart assembly to this custom contract. But this is just an example on how you can like uh link and like build a custom contract. Uh but you can write any complex logic you want to issue the jump permit or we also have other example here uh where you can uh issue jump permit when a player submits the cops of another player. So basically it is just like collect cops bounty and this is also a good example to show uh how you can uh customize uh your storage unit because this is a combination of two smart assemblies. Here you can see storage unit and you can also see gate. So both of the logic has been customized and also you can configure uh which um which cops you would uh accept also or you can complete like a totally different example where uh you issue jump permit like a toll payment. So you make them pay when you issue. Uh but this is like the basics basically define this witness type and you configure this to your smart assembly and you use this witness type in your module uh where you have the custom contract to call the world contract and this pattern might vary from assembly to assembly. So I would suggest to keep uh track of this uh builder scaffold and all the examples to build um custom logic for your smart assembly. So now let's go back and like um deploy this custom contract local net and test this. So I'm going to like uh go to the build fold. Now I have to configure the end file but this we can do it later. I'm going to go to the smart gate folder. Now let's publish the custom contract. So this will uh deploy the custom packages and for the test net you can see it's straightforward but for the local uh you have to pass the ephemer published ephemeral file. So because this is dependent on the world contracts so you need to pass the file uh path for the um publish file. So this is basically file and now we have deployed it. It's also being saved here. Uh because in the local net the since the chain is ephemeral it gets wiped after every restart. So um need to so that it cannot automatically resolve the dependency. So you need to do this and um now we can set up the end file uh which is here. Now I'm going to copy the published extension package ID and I'm going to copy the um extension config ID. So this is basically the object ID for the configurations where you can say which tribe you allow or like uh which cops do you want. So basically this is the configuration object where you can configure the rules. And now let's uh go back and from the extracted uh object ids which is we exported from the world deployment we get the uh world package ID and we also need to configure all these which we can use the uh local uh addresses. Oops. You can use the same address for these cuz it's local test net. And I'm going to use all of this since we're using in local net. But for the test net, you can either use the same keys or bring your own keys. Now I'm going to uh let's uh run these scripts. one by one and let's see if it works. So I'm going to install the dependencies and I'm going to configure the rules. So uh to see what happens in these scripts you can check out the TS scripts folder and here uh you have uh configure rules and authorized gate and all the other one. So configure the rules is basically you uh set the how long the uh the pass is valid for. It's like the expiry time and also which tribe you allow to issue the permit. And uh so next step is like uh authorize the gate and authorize storage unit. That's basically you are authorizing uh your uh smart gate in the world uh with this uh witness type. So if you can see here the o type is x o which is being defined in your custom um contract and then you authorize here uh authorize extension and the o type which is here this one and this is only be uh called by the owner. So you borrow the owner cap and you return. Uh to know why this is you can uh read the ownership model here in the uh documentation. And same thing goes for the storage unit as well. You basically define the uh witness type and then you authorize uh your smart assembly in game um to use this so that this can call the wall functions. And then we have issue tribe jump permit. This is just to simulate like a a different player who is in your same tribe. So which you can see this is basically calling the issue jump permit. Ideally you'll uh create a dab for this and uh here you can see this is the game character B. Then here you can see jump with permit. So right now we are simulating this in the local but this will be called by the game server. Um, so we don't have to worry about this, but it only checks if they have a valid permit. And then this is another one to collect cops bounty. So now let's go ahead and uh try to do configure rules. So this would this has configured the rules and let's um now let's try to jump actually without authorizing the gate because anyone can like jump. Um but I think I don't have the function for it uh to jump the default jump. Okay, let's try to authorize the gate. So now the gate is authorized. So uh by default they cannot jump. So let's try to jump without getting a permit. So you see you should own a jump permit. So it fails which is good. So I'm going to issue and now I'll try to jump. No, it's off. So, uh yeah, we can also try this uh authorized storage unit. And let's try to collect the cops bounty which worked. And now again jumping should work. Um let's try jump with permit. It works. But if I try again, it will fail because the jump permit is valid only for once. Um so people cannot misuse. Uh so now we have seen a end to end uh flow where you set up the local environment and deploy the world and we uh built a custom world sorry custom contract. This is supposed to be contract and where we define the witness type and we authorize this witness type that links to your smart assembly and so that you can use that uh for calling the world uh contract functions. Uh and we also deployed the custom world and we tested the internet flow and everything is working. There are also some uh useful commands here if you want to see the keys um or also if you want to try it in your host. There's different documentation. Um and watch out this repository for updates because this is actively being um improved and it's under development. So we might add more examples to this and also the process and the flow is different for different smart assemblies. So check this out. I hope this uh helps for your hackathon journey and happy hacking. Thank you.